# Version 0.1.0 - "Creation" \[Indev\]

0.1.0 is the first version of the datapack, written in a single day's work.  
It introduces *Golden Arrow*, an iconic mob from the original Bedrock addon "The Golden Arcane", with basic features such as a custom bossbar, enhanced statuses and three base abilities: Dash, Teleport, and Heal.

## Contents

* Added *Golden Arrow*, a boss-like Stray with a custom bossbar and unique behavior.

  * Added abilities: Dash, Teleport, Heal.
  * Added equipment: Fallen Armor set, Banishment and Demise swords, Goner Bow.
    * The Fallen Armor set and the Demise sword are currently unobtainable.
    * Banishment and Goner Bow are obtainable if Golden Arrow dies while holding one of those items.

  * Added events: Death, Despawn, Player Flees.
    * Death is triggered when a player entity cannot detect a Golden Arrow instance in the current world;
    * Despawn occurs when Golden Arrow cannot find a player in a 48-block radius, or when the nearest player remains further than 24 blocks for far too long;
    * Player Flees is ran when players are over 24 blocks away from Golden Arrow; After 2400 accumulated ticks, the Despawn event is triggered, and the triggering player is harmed if within a 32-block radius of the entity.

  * Golden Arrow currently may only be summoned via commands (`/function garrow:spawn`).

* Added advancements:
  * "*Golden Arcane*" (`goldark:root`) - Obtainable by unlocking the Gold Block recipe; Root/Task type advancement;
  * "*Fallen Deceit*" (`garrow:defeat_garrow`) - Obtainable by defeating Golden Arrow; Task type advancement with parent `goldark:root`.

## Technical

* Introduced two namespaces:
  * `goldark`, for general use by the datapack;
  * `garrow`, for use by code specific to the Golden Arrow entity.

* Added scoreboard objectives:
  * `goldark.weapon_cooldown`, a cooldown for Golden Arrow's weapon swap passive ability;
  * `goldark.ability_clock`, a tick-based clock which triggers active abilities on specified intervals;
  * `goldark.flee_timeout`, a timer which increases whenever the player is away from Golden Arrow. At an upper limit of 2400, the Despawn event is triggered.

* Added tags:
  * `garrow.dash_mode` - Indicates whenever Golden Arrow is using the Dash ability;
  * `garrow.in_battle` - Denotes which players were nearby at Golden Arrow's summoning event;
  * `garrow.invert_melee` - Wether Golden Arrow should have its swords switched in Melee mode;
  * `garrow.melee_mode` - Indicates Golden Arrow is using its swords for melee combat;
  * `garrow.ranged_mode` - Indicates Golden Arrow is using an enchanted bow for ranged combat;
  * `garrow.remove` - Used by the `garrow:spawn` function to cleanly remove duplicate Golden Arrow instances and avoid dropped gear;
  * `garrow.run_teleport` - Indicates Golden Arrow has used a Teleport ability, prevents variants from further occurring within the same tick;
  * `goldark.golden_arrow` - Marks a Stray as a Golden Arrow instance, who will behave as the boss if it supports the same base features:
    * Hostility to player entities;
    * Capability of using equipped weapons/armor;
    * Ability to use a bow.
      * As of 1.20.1, only the Skeleton AI possesses all three traits in vanilla Minecraft.

* New entity: Golden Arrow (modified Stray w/ `goldark:golden_arrow` tag).

---

For a full list of all changed features, see this update's [commits page](https://github.com/Ayden-Foxx/GoldenArcane/commit/35bef98caba73519889bf4fcb437a291a5580469).
