# Version 0.2.0 - Rebirth [Indev]

0.2.0 is a major rewrite of several aspects of the datapack: Golden Arrow's temporary removal of special abilities, a new mechanic involving craftable magical "scrolls", and the datapack's update to Minecraft version 1.21.1 (latest as of 09/12/2024), among several other technical-side changes.

0.2.0 is a near-rewrite of the previous version; While mostly compatible with v0.1.0 if updating one's Minecraft version accordingly, it is *not* compatible with 1.20.1 itself.

If a world is saved while Golden Arrow is running its Dash ability, it can be stuck with permanent Invisibility and Speed, as the ability's functions are absent in this update. Thus, a temporary fix has been added on the datapack's load function, where the game will check for any affected Golden Arrow instance and remove their respective status effects.

## Contents

* Updated the pack's target version to `1.21.1`.

* Introduced *Spells* mechanic; Spells are magical arrangements of common items with the goal of producing specific arcane effects.
    * Spells can be right-clicked, consuming the item and running their respective effects;
    * Currently only one Spell may be cast at a time -- this is likely to change in the future;
    * Also introduced Charms, a subcategory of Spells which are quicker to use, but generally have less impactful/grandiose behavior;
        * Charms are instantaneous, and make no check for already running spells.
    * Currently only has `Weather: Clear/Rain/Thunder` and `Smelt` as Spells / Charm, respectively.

    * Known bug: Spells require at least 2 in a stack to work, unless on Creative mode.

* Added a custom GoldArk-specific Difficulty meter; This difficulty is automatically set to match the world's vanilla difficulty on (re)load.
    * Added new custom difficulty: Dark.
        * Can only be enabled in vanilla's Hard difficulty;
        * Currently may only be enabled with `scoreboard players set $goldark_diff goldark.world_difficulty 4`;
        * Has no effects of its own (yet).

* Temporarily removed Golden Arrow's Dash, Teleport and Heal abilities.
    * Base and Special Abilities will be reintroduced in a future update focused on Golden Arrow's full battle;
    * Golden Arrow still retain its weapon swap passive ability from the initial version.

* Temporarily removed Golden Arrow's Death and Player Flees events.
    * Despawn has been repurposed as an instance behavior function.
        * Golden Arrow will still despawn when over 48 blocks from all players.

## Technical

* Added advancements:
    * `garrow:defeated_garrow_vulnerable`: Obtainable by defeating Golden Arrow while it has the `goldark.vulnerable` tag; Currently unobtainable.

* Renamed advancements:
    * `garrow:defeat_garrow` -> `garrow:defeated_garrow`.

* Added new functions for Golden Arrow:
    * `garrow:instance/weapons/none`: Clears Golden Arrow's held weaponry (unused);
    * `garrow:instance/toggle_attributes`: Enables/disables Golden Arrow's custom attributes; Used on spawning a new instance.

* Renamed functions:
    * `garrow:weapons/``*` -> `garrow:instance/weapons/``*`;
    * `garrow:events/despawn` -> `garrow:instance/despawn`;
    * `garrow:set_armor` -> `garrow:instance/set_armor`.

* Removed functions:
    * `garrow:events/death` and `garrow:events/player_flees` (Temporary removal of Golden Arrow's events);
    * `garrow:abilities/``*`.

* Added scoreboard objectives:
    * `goldark.ability_timer`, a countdown of the duration of a running active ability;
        * `goldark.ability_clock` now only focus on counting until the next ability trigger;

    * `goldark.dummy`, a "purposeless" scoreboard which can be used by generic code to keep track of things without a scoreboard of its own;
    * `goldark.world_difficulty`, a Golden Arcane-specific difficulty meter, synced to the world's vanilla difficulty upon reload.

* Added tags:
    * `garrow.tools.toggle_attributes`: When present, the function `garrow:instance/toggle_attributes` will *remove* the target's attributes. Otherwise, it *adds* them.

* Renamed tags:
    * `garrow.in_battle` -> `garrow.player.in_battle`;
    * `garrow.invert_melee` -> `garrow.tools.invert_melee`;
    * `garrow.melee_mode` -> `garrow.combat.melee_mode`;
    * `garrow.ranged_mode` -> `garrow.combat.ranged_mode`;
    * `garrow.remove` -> `garrow.tools.replace_instance`.
        * Now also triggers a "teleport" effect on the removed instance's previous location.

* Removed tags:
    * `garrow.dash_mode` (removal of Dash ability's functions; only present for compatibility with 0.1.0 worlds)
    * `garrow.run_teleport` (removal of Teleport ability's functions)

* Added (Item) tags:
    * `garrow:water_token`: A collection of items representing the element of Water.
        * Introduced with the following items:
            * `minecraft:water_bucket`
            * `minecraft:lapis_lazuli`
            * `minecraft:heart_of_the_sea`

## Other

* Created new branch (`devel`) for in-development versions of the project.
* Updated [README.md](../../README.md) with proper data of current progress in development.
* Created changelog  for previous and current versions.

---

For a full list of changed files in this update, see [here](https://github.com/AydenTFoxx/GoldenArcane/commit/42b7e3050da9536611c6e7d76f06f0ef4f9af064).